---
layout:     post
title:      "Otto - PHP development and deployment"
subtitle:   "Development and Deployment Made Easy with Successor to Vagrant"
published:  2015-10-01 12:36:19
author:     "Marco Bunge"
header-img: "img/modern-work-de.jpeg"
---

Otto has been created by the developers of vagrant. Otto has been developed with new gotten knowledge while vagrant development. 
Otto will developed simultaneously to Vagrant.

## Prepare Otto

First of all we need to <a href="https://ottoproject.io/downloads.html" target="_blank">download</a> the latest version of otto. 
Unzip the binary to any folder and add the containing folder to your PATH.

If you typing `otto` in you cli you should get similar output.

{% highlight text %}
$ otto
usage: otto [--version] [--help] <command> [<args>]

Available commands are:
    build      Build the deployable artifact for the app
    compile    Prepares your project for being run.
    deploy     Deploy the application
    dev        Start and manage a development environment
    infra      Builds the infrastructure for the Appfile
    status     Status of the stages of this application
    version    Prints the Otto version
{% endhighlight %}

## Create development environment

### Init a new project with composer

If you already have a composer project you can skip this step.

Initialize a new project with `php composer.phar init` and follow the instructions. We won't install any dependencies.
After our project has been initalized we execute `composer install`.

<div class="callout callout-info">
    <h4>Download composer</h4>
    <p>Get the latest composer version: <code>curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php</code></p>
</div>

### Initialize Otto

Simply execute `otto compile`. Otto is automatically detect your project type and prepares Otto to managae our app lifecycle.
